1 Significance of Innovation

1.1 Phase I Significance

Opening: 
Worldwide, 15 million people experience a stroke every year, from which a significant percentage of these patients continue to live with some residual disability. (WHO, 2015) 

Stats: 
1.	Stroke has a negative influence on the quality-of-life for sufferers (Widar, Ahlström and Ek, 2004).
2.	Stroke patients reported a lack of confidence and fear of leaving the house which prevented them from engaging in activities they previously enjoyed pre-stroke such as Gardening, engaging in their careers, traveling, and most importantly, self-reliance and self-care. 
3.	Post-Stroke survivors require gait rehabilitation in order to regain muscle function and coordination in an effort to increase physical mobility and improve quality of life. 
4.	Previous rehabilitation options available for these patients are expensive and showed limited effectiveness.
a.	training and rehab only shows 3-5% of improvements
b.	not a one size fits all
	While conventional gait rehabilitation requires intensive effort from multiple therapists per patient risking injuries to both patient and therapist.
 .	large percentage of patients have no access to rehab 
a.	huge costs to society and diminished quality of life for patients
	Provide a device for home that allows for 4-6 hours of rehabilitation a day and a switch to assistance mode for continued usage: antagonistic knee actuation
 .	It is of vital importance to understand their experiences so that health care structures and policies may be modified, devised and implemented which meet the needs of this vulnerable group. 
a.	

Previous: 
For more than a decade now, exoskeletons presented a viable tool to address the . 
1.	Ekso Bionics, developed robotic assited rehabilitation device called Ekso. Assist patients from acute therapy until they are ready for over-ground walking
a.	driven gait approach, ensures users produce a desired action regardless of patient input. Limited capability: not ideal for patients who are trying to regain or strengthen remaining functionality
b.	Large, heavy, expensive
	Alter G developed single axis bionic knee
 .	large, expensive, inaccessible
a.	dfkjdlkfjdfg
	These solutions have yet to live up to the vision of a community of stroke survivors to have self reliance


Otherlab Solution:

alternative designs
overcome each limiting factor

Objectives:
The objectives for this Phase I effort are as follows:

1.	Design and prototype single leg antagonistic joint architecture: Current infrastructure models fail to address the issues of bidirectional actuation.
a.	Antagonistic
b.	locating power, 
c.	strapping for Don and Doff
	Rehab control: Demo Low level impedance control capabilities
	Asistance control: intent recognition for community mobility





Hare R, Rogers H, Lester H, McManus, RJ, Nad Mant J (2006) What do stroke patients and their carers want from community services? Fam Pract 23: 131–6
Widar M, Ahlström G and Ek A (2004) Health-related quality-of-life in persons with long-term pain after a stroke. J Clin Nurs 13(4): 497–5 













